hi everyone and thank you so much for
coming to this session on such a
beautiful day late in the afternoon i
really appreciate you coming to talk
about how to attract hire and build a
more diverse sales team in your
organization
for anyone who hasn't heard of handshake
we believe that we can help every
student and alumni find a great job and
build a meaningful career without any
experience no connections and no luck
required
we know that talent is evenly
distributed across the u.s but
opportunity is not
and so at handshake we want to make sure
that no matter what someone's race
ethnicity or socioeconomic status is
that they're able to find meaningful
employment and handshake can help
support that at scale
so before i get started i wanted to talk
about
something that one of my aes said in a
team meeting while i was preparing for
this presentation
he opened up to the team and he said
i came to handshake because i want to
teach employers that people are great
not despite their uniqueness and
differences but because of it
and it was such an impactful statement
at that time and we were all kind of
quiet for a minute and it was like
wow that's what we do at handshake we we
make impact every single day we go out
there and we help employers know how
they can be better and so as we start to
talk through this today i hope that
resonates with you as much as it did
with me
and that as you leave this today you'll
have a new passion for helping find
diverse talent bring them into your
organization and making sure that we're
all looking to make that change
so i've been building top produced top
producing sales teams for a really
really long time
it's challenging but it's one of my
favorite parts of my job
and it's something that's so important
when i look at these pictures
i think about all the success that i've
had over the years and all of that
success has come from the people that
are a part of my teams and in most cases
not just one team in most cases they've
been on multiple teams or they've
followed me from company to company
and i think i talk to people all the
time about how to build a top producing
sales p team and people say
just go out and hire a bunch of top
producers it seems like it shouldn't be
that hard right but it really is
difficult for all of you who are doing
it you know how difficult it is to build
that team
so today i'm going to talk about not
just diversity but how to attract hire
and build a top producing team because i
believe that the secret behind that is
through diversity
over the years
i've watched many sales leaders go out
and say
brian's my top producer i'm going to go
out and hire 25 people that are just
like brian and essentially what they do
is they hire the same profile person
just over and over and over and what
starts to happen is that the people
within that group can't learn and grow
from each other because they're all good
at the same thing and they're all bad at
the same thing so what starts to happen
is that instead of helping each other
they start to compete with each other
because that's all they're able to do
this is when you end up with one of
those highly competitive environments
that no one wants to work in it's not
collaborative and it's just quite
frankly not fun
so when you start focusing on hiring
people who are different things like
different backgrounds different tenures
different locations different race
different ethnicity
this is when you're going to find a
group of people who are all good at
something different and they're all bad
at something different and when you
bring that group of people together it
creates a culture of growth
and you start to have a growth mindset
within your organization people know
when they have a question or they need
help with something who the right person
on the team to go to is to learn that
it helps you up level your team with
every single person that you add and you
can create that as you continue to add
more types of diversity throughout your
sales organization
so over my career i have learned a lot
i've certainly made a lot of mistakes in
my time but one of the most important
lessons i've learned has been around
truly embracing people's differences and
understanding that there are so many
ways to be diverse i think when we hear
the word diversity many times we
immediately think about internal
characteristics that you're born with
like gender race ethnicity and age but
there are so many other ways to be
diverse think about characteristics you
weren't born with and things that can
change over the course of your life so
some of those are socioeconomic status
religious beliefs education
even your location can change that
so
each of these experiences as you go
through life
will change your experience and who you
are
it's important that as leaders as we
build teams that we recognize those
different experiences and embrace them
if you want to truly be successful you
will need to embrace all kinds of
diverse talent within your sales org or
any organization that you're building
today and then you'll have to make sure
that that environment is equitable
inclusive to support them in an ongoing
manner so we're going to touch on all of
that today
so i'm going to talk a little bit about
the progress we've been able to make at
handshake since i joined in january of
2020. you can see here that when i
started we had nine enterprise aes on
the team
and most of them were white males
most of them lived in san francisco
they're about the same age
about the same tenure
kelly was so excited when i started at
handshake just to have another female in
the room and i can't tell you how common
that is on enterprise teams
so fast forward a year later we had
grown the team to 14 enterprise aes
and we were able to actually equalize
the balance of men and women on an
enterprise team
for those of you who aren't in
enterprise sales this is highly unusual
in this environment
we were also able to add some race and
ethnicity to the group as well
so fast forward six months this is where
we were at the beginning of september
you can see here that now we have more
women than men on the team something i'm
very proud of
we've been able to add ethnicity and
race but so many other things as well
we've been able to add people from you
know different locations across the
country different tenures different ages
different educations different
experiences and this is what truly
represents a diverse team
when i joined we had plans to only hire
in san francisco new york and chicago
and now more than a third of our group
is dispersed across the country
i'm going to go over some actual stats
on the next few slides
but overall i'm really proud of the
progress that we've made at handshake
and we still have some room to grow so
we're building the team out to 20 sorry
34 so i have seven more hires that will
continue to be really intentional
about the way that we are looking and
sourcing and talking to people about
these opportunities to make sure that
every time we bring an enterprise ae on
they're bringing a skill to the team
that we know is going to up level and
help the team grow and learn from each
other
so
over the next few slides i'm actually
going to shift from talking about the
overarching term of diversity to
focusing on underrepresented groups
which we call urgs
[Music]
which talks more about how they identify
so
a lot of times we look at a slide like
this and we think we know how someone
identifies but you really can't have
that perspective especially as you're
looking to add people to your team it's
something that you need to be very clear
about very intentional about and work
with your hr teams to make sure that you
understand the true self-identification
you know as you work to improve these
numbers
so as i mentioned earlier earlier 56
percent of the team is female
for most of my early career i was the
only woman in the room the only woman in
meetings the only woman on the sales
floor and i really didn't feel like i
had a voice it took me a lot of years
before i you know really found that was
comfortable in meetings and able to
speak out
i was lucky enough that i found men
along the way who believed in me and
mentored me and sponsored me but i never
had a strong woman sales leader at any
of my roles
when i look at this graph on the right
and i see the progress that i've made
with the enterprise team i like to think
that i'm changing that type of sales
environment and making sure that
everyone in the room feels like they
have a voice
so
it's not easy to be a white woman
standing on stage talking about racial
representation it's a conversation that
so many of us are uncomfortable having
but we have to start being comfortable
talking about this topic
when i was going through and prepping
for this i met with one of the leaders
of our wakanda group who supports black
individuals at handshake and she was
like absolutely you have to go out there
and talk about this
this is the problem that we don't have
these conversations and that we're not
being more transparent and talking about
this across our organizations
so when i started on this journey we
went on a mission to exceed the u.s
census data we thought that is a great
place to start i talk to employers every
day and that's what many of them are
working to achieve
so right now we still have a little ways
to go but with our seven hires and the
pipeline that we have through the end of
the month i believe we'll be able to
exceed that by the end of october
but when you look at this and you think
about racial representation
you'll see that all non-white people are
lumped into one group
and that's really not the way we should
be talking about this there's so many
types of people when we start talking
about people of color and we need to
start representing this and making sure
that they all have their own piece of
the pie and that they all have their own
voice in the room
getting to the point that we're at today
was a lot of progress but i'm still
learning my whole company's still
learning and i hope you're all still
learning about these things and trying
to be better that's a big part of why
i'm here today if i can help any one of
you go back and make an impact in your
company then this was worth it standing
up here after being in the house for a
year and a half and coming and standing
in front of a large group of people
but i've committed to my team and my
organization
that this is the only the beginning like
we set the bar and then we achieve the
bar and then we set a new bar and that
process just has to continue over and
over again
if any of my peloton family is out there
this will sound really familiar but it's
about progress not perfection
it's about continuing to learn and grow
being really transparent about where we
have opportunity and then continuing to
grow from there
so
i'm not going to stand up here and tell
you that this is going to be easy
finding diverse talent is a challenge
because of the numbers that you see here
on the screen but it's possible and we
can't use it as an excuse to not make
change or to hide behind
for most of you in this room you're
leaders where you come over challenges
every single day
as a sales leader if i don't have enough
pipeline i can't sit back and just say
oh i don't have enough pipeline i'm not
going to hit my numbers i have to go out
there and find it
finding diverse talent is exactly the
same way
i'm responsible for it you're
responsible for it your sales team is
responsible for it your c-suite is
responsible for it your ceo is
responsible for it everyone has to start
working together in order to make this
change
we all know that hiring a sales team is
going to be challenging because of the
demographics that you see on the screen
but it is critically important that we
start to put focus in this area
and start to put numbers behind it so
i'm going to walk through some slides on
why this is so important
back in january deloitte did a survey of
ceos
and then 94 percent agreed that dei was
a personal strategic priority and 90
agreed that they wanted to be a leader
in the space i mean just think about
those statistics they're crazy right
that's everyone
but you'll see here that they talk about
diversity equity and inclusion
i want to point that out because i only
have a half an hour today and i'm mostly
speaking about the diversity aspect but
equity and inclusion are so important to
think about as well
as you start working through this you'll
start to hear terms like allyship
mentorship sponsorship these things are
all really important that you begin to
educate yourself and make sure that
you're including them in your strategy
you can also see that 72 of ceos plan to
disclose their dei metrics to the public
this is great news because if you're
making an impact and making the change
candidates will come to work for your
organization because they see that you
care
here's where it starts to become really
important
earlier this year dan schwabel
found that 70 of employees said that
they want to work for a company that
demonstrates diversity and inclusion
they're not asking for it they're
demanding it we're in one of the most
competitive hiring markets that has ever
happened
and if you're not willing to invest in
the things that your employees want
they're going to start going work to
work for employers who are
if that's not enough and in addition
like to making your ceo happy and your
employees happy
you want to look at the financial aspect
data shows that
if you are diversified ethnically
your financial performance will go up by
and if you're diversified by gender
it'll go up by 15
so i don't think there's anybody in this
audience that doesn't want their
financial performance to increase by a
percent
mckinsey also suggests in this study
that other kinds of diversity like age
sexual orientation and experiences are
likely to bring another level of
competitive advantage for companies that
continue to invest and attract
top talent
so this is one that i'm obviously really
passionate about something that i talk
about every single day
gen z is here and most people don't
realize that they are entering adulthood
as the first and most radically
different group of people they're
racially different they're ethnically
different and they're on their way to
becoming the best education educated
generation yet
they turned 23 this year
and so they are going to be entering the
job market in full force
and as the most diverse generation to
date
they are demanding that employers are
investing in this area and they want to
go to work for companies where the teams
feel like them and look like them and
where they know that they're going to
feel included
so if you haven't begun to think about
how you're going to attract
hire and retain generation z
now is the time
so i hope by now this is something that
you're thinking okay
i should go back and make a change i
should start doing something to change
this in my organization but where do i
start
the first place is to set achievable and
transparent goals within your sales
organization
so this is something that a lot of
people skip and they just start by you
know working on brand or talking you
know their recruiters about how they're
gonna source but really start and be
very prescriptive about where you're
trying to get to
if you only have one or two head count
to add to your team this year it's gonna
be really hard to make significant
improvement in this area and those one
or two hires become critically important
in making the change once you've
committed to something make sure you lay
out how much time it's going to take and
what you're going to need to get there
transparency through your organization
in this area about how and when you're
going to be able to achieve specific
goals is really important the employers
that i speak with every day who are
successful in this area
are successful because they've gained
buy-in from their c-suite and they have
the full support for them as they go
through and start to make change in
their organization
another thing that can really help is
connecting with your erg or employee
resource group leaders
they can help give you a different
perspective and help you talk about how
you're performing today and making sure
that they're supporting you and what you
hope to accomplish in the upcoming years
and if you want to get started with
melody here just google her she has
amazing content out there that can help
you get started
okay
so
we've talked about setting your goals
and now you're going to go and start to
achieve them
so how do you attract talent
this is the very first step and it's so
important
you have to work on your brand and when
you think about your brand that means
you
your website your recruiters any content
that's out there
your team your interview process
anything that would come in touch with a
candidate from the time they start
researching your company until the time
that they would move to getting an offer
but here's where a lot of companies fall
short
they go out and they update their
website and they update their social
media
and then they wait and that's not going
to do it for you it might help a little
bit but at the end of the day you're
still not changing so
the things that you need to do in your
organization are a lot very detailed
we've written a blog i have it posted on
my linkedin page if you want to see it
in more detail but essentially you want
to make sure that everyone in your team
is helping everyone should be a brand
ambassador and on board with the process
um you want to make sure that you
embrace personalization so this is a big
one you can't send the same messaging to
i don't know a black female in san
francisco as you would to an asian male
in atlanta you just want to make sure
you change it so it really resonates
with them and for you if you're in a
sales role
it sounds a lot like prospecting right
writing cadences and templates this is
what we do for a living recruiting is a
lot like sales so you need to start
changing what you're doing today to
align with that
and then you need to be thinking about
consistency throughout your process to
ensure that everyone has an equitable
experience
and this is something i will talk about
a little bit more in the next few slides
but at the end of the day
elevate their candidate experience you
want someone to come in and feel like
they're going to be included in your
organization you want to make sure that
every interaction you have with them
counts
this is your opportunity to tell your
story this is your opportunity to shine
so make sure that you're focused on what
that experience is like
the last thing is that if you are going
to lean on your erg leaders or other
employees in your organization make sure
you're compensating them for going over
and above at handshake we've recently
started compensating our erg leaders
because they are putting in a lot of
time and effort to make sure that
they're helping us build our culture and
just making the company better in
general
so let's talk about
you know once your brand is elevated
you're now you're going out there and
you're saying how can i source for more
candidates you have to start thinking
bigger and thinking about pools of
candidates that you're not accessing
today
gen z is a great place to start as i
mentioned earlier third of the global
population you can see that one in four
are hispanic and nearly half are racial
or ethnic minorities so if you're not
thinking about early talent today this
is an immediate place that you can add
representation into your hiring pipeline
consider hiring from areas that you
haven't before in the last 18 months the
world has changed drastically especially
when hiring enterprise and stratas
you can start to look at where the
talent that you're looking for is
located it's amazing how much
representation changes state by state
even county by county
so educate yourself on where the
candidates are that you're trying to
find
it can also help or hurt your efforts to
hire from underrepresented groups
so if you're looking for
a black candidate in san francisco you
can see here it's only five percent of
the population but if you move that
search to new york city now you're at 24
and then if you go to atlanta it more
than doubles but if you're looking for
an asian candidate then atlanta is not
such a great place to be sourcing you'd
be much better off looking at san
francisco
okay
so we've talked about some ideas of how
to find new pipe new talent
in different areas across different
types of pools
and now we're going to talk a bit about
the hiring process
so
you absolutely are going to need to do
training on removing hiring bias from
your hiring process
it's not just for your recruiters a lot
of people think oh we'll have the
recruiters go through this process and
that's going to fix it everyone needs to
go through this process
you cannot overcome hiring bias or
remove it from your process if you don't
know it exists
unconscious racism ageism and sexism
sexism play a big role
in who we hire francesca gino a
professor at the harvard business school
says that hiring bias is something that
causes us to make decisions
of one in favor of one person or group
to the detriment of others
this is going to hinder the diverse
environment that you need to build in
your organization if you want to be
successful
so
when we align ourselves
in images and things that we see
we start to have this hiring bias
so if you think about
seeing women with careers in nursing or
education and men with roles in c-suites
if you're interviewing for those roles
that can start to change the perception
of who's sitting across the table from
you or on a zoom link today
iris bonnet the author of what works
gender equality by design she talks
about how seeing is believing so
basically if we see male kindergarten if
we don't see male kindergarten teachers
or we don't see female engineers then we
don't see how that person could fit into
the role and we may actually change the
questions or the process that we
normally go through
so you can mitigate bias as a hiring
manager and there are some really basic
steps that you can put in place
you want to start by documenting
everything and really aligning the team
you want to be very clear and explicit
about the candidates that you're looking
for and make sure everyone in the hiring
process
understands the part that they're gonna
they're gonna play as they go through
this so
at handshake we actually create a role
playbook it includes the job description
uh detailed competencies that we're
looking for we then write questions out
for each interviewer that tied back to
those competencies
and we even create a scorecard of what
good and bad looks like as they go
through the interview process
then before the role even gets posted
online we have a sync everyone that's
going to touch this candidate from
beginning to end
sourcing interviewing
whatever it is they come to that meeting
and we make sure that everyone's aligned
so we know what good looks like and what
bad looks like and then every single
week we sync on the candidates that have
come through the pipeline and we talk
about what was good and what was bad and
maybe how we can change that as we go
through the next iteration
so if you can be deliberate and
consistent in your process
it creates constant transparency so it's
very difficult for hiring bias to creep
in
i can't say enough how important
structured interviewing is and i'm sure
most of you in this room have been
exposed to at this point
but it's something that hiring managers
generally struggle with
in real life
when i do an interview every single
candidate gets asked the ev the same
questions every single time i conduct an
interview and it's really important in
making sure that they have a fair and
equitable interview process
it's very common for people who as
they're talking to someone if you really
connect and you like each other you're
going to ask much more casual questions
because you like them you're comfortable
with them that's natural for you when
you have someone that doesn't have that
same interaction a lot of times you'll
start to ask more challenging questions
or different questions than you would
have asked another candidate and that's
not fair to the people interviewing for
the role so it's important that you put
the structure in place and make it easy
for your hiring managers to ensure that
they're asking the same consistent
questions at every single interview
so along that same line you should be
thinking about the people and what their
experience is going to be as they come
through the interview process so when i
put someone through to a panel interview
it's because i believe that they're a
good fit for handshake and that they're
excited about the opportunity i want
that person to see themselves on my team
i want them to feel like as they go
through the interview process
this is a team that i want to work for
if you have structured interviewing in
place it's very easy to swap the people
out because they're all going to ask the
same questions and fill out the same
scorecard this allows you to make a more
customized experience for your
candidates as they go through the
interview process it ties back a lot to
brand the people that you put in front
of this candidate in the interview
process are part of your brand so it's
important that you continue to think of
that
so we're coming up on time and this is
my last slide but it's something that i
am really passionate about
we've spoken about how to attract higher
diverse talent but there is one more
option you can build it from scratch
from the start
and you can do that with sdrs so
your sdrs can be a really powerful place
to add diversity on your team
you know we spoke earlier about that gen
z audience entering the workforce so
this is a great place to include them in
a long-term strategy
if you invest in bringing people in in
their first or second role out of school
you can train them exactly the way you
want no bad habits
and then you build a true farm system
within your sales organization
this will not only give you more pipe
generation from having sdrs and seat but
it means you'll always be able to
promote internally from a bunch of
people who already know your product
your systems and are looking for that
next step in their career
one thing that's critically important is
that you have to build a solid
onboarding and continuous education
program if you're going to invest in
this strategy and really building out
your sdr team
but it will give you the opportunity to
hire from a much more representative
group of people and truly set yourself
up for long-term success
so
i've highlighted the key takeaways here
but
i think what i'd really like to do is go
back to the quote from muhammad my ie at
the beginning of this session
we teach employers every single day that
people are great not despite their
uniqueness or their differences
but because of them
i hope that as you go
back to your companies
you'll make a commitment to yourselves
to your teams
to your organizations to make diversity
equity inclusion a top priority
not just in your sales organization but
in your entire organization
if we all begin to commit to making
these changes and building more diverse
teams we're going to be more successful
at the end of the day
[Music]
you